The Biathlon World Championships of the season takes place during February or March. Some years it has been necessary to schedule parts of the Championships at other than the main venue because of weather and/or snow conditions. Full, joint Biathlon World Championships have never been held in Olympic Winter Games seasons. Biathlon World Championships in non-IOC events, however, have been held in Olympic seasons. This event was first held in 1999. This event was first held unofficially in 1965.

It has been held since the winter seasons of 1977–78 for men and 1982–83 for women. The women's seasons until 1986–87 season were called the European Cup, although participation was not restricted to Europeans. The World Cup season lasts from November or December to late March, with meetings in a different venue every week excluding some holidays and a couple of weeks before the season's major championships (World Championships or Winter Olympics). Relay competitions are held four to six times per season. Formerly it was counted as World Cup events are World Championships(the last Championship to count towards the World Cup were held in Pokljuka, Slovenia 2021) and Winter Olympics events (the last Olympics to count towards the World Cup were the 2010 Winter Olympics: from the 2014 Winter Olympics competitors are no longer awarded World Cup points for their Olympic performances). As of February 2024, meetings have primarily been held in Europe and North America; the only other places to have hosted meetings that weren't the World Championships or the Winter Olympics, are Nagano, Japan in 1996–97, and Pyeongchang, South Korea in 2007–08 and 2016–17. Below is a list of all male and female biathletes that have won five or more individual World Cup, World Championships or Olympic races.

The event was the highlight of the 2023–24 Biathlon World Cup, but was not included in its rankings (except for the national rankings). A total of 12 events were held: sprint, pursuit, individual, mass start and relay races for both men, women, single mixed relay and a mixed relay.