Powdery mildew fungi belong to the Erysiphales order of the Ascomycota phylum. The Erysiphales belong to the Leotiomycetes class (Wang et al., 2006), in which many fungal pathogens causing serious plant disease are found, including many necrotrophic fungal pathogens that have very contrasted host range and infection strategies compared with powdery mildew fungi (Amselem et al., 2011). To date, sixteen genera containing ~ 900 species have been described in the Erysiphales order (Braun & Cook, 2012). Considering their numbers and importance, relatively few systematists are working on them. A few orders within this group are considered moderately well-known, namely the Erysiphales, Hypocreales, and Xylariales. With a few exceptions, most genera or subclass taxa within the perithecial Euascomycetes and Loculoascomycetes are poorly defined. Sugiyama and colleagues (1999) have shown based on molecular data that the Myxotrichaceae should be excluded from the Onygenales, as positioned below, and placed among the Leotiales and Erysiphales. No comprehensive key to the coprophilous genera is available, although Richardson and Watling (1997) published keys to some of the more common taxa, and Bell (1983) provided keys to the coprophilous mycobiota of New Zealand. The Zygomycetes are a diverse group of fungi consisting of 10 orders, 18 families, and 122 genera (Benny et al. 2001), almost half of the genera being in the Mucorales. Recent phylogenetic studies clearly show that the Mucorales contains only a single family, the Mucoraceae (Voigt et al.

Erysiphales are an order of ascomycete fungi. The order contains one family, Erysiphaceae. Many of them cause plant diseases called powdery mildew. The order contains one family (Erysiphaceae), 28 genera and around 1000 species. Many imperfect fungi (fungi whose sexual reproduction is unknown) belong here, especially the genus Oidium. Erysiphales have a superficial mycelium which extracts nourishment from the host plant through specialized hyphae that penetrate the epidermal cells of the host by means of absorbing organs called haustoria. Erysiphales are obligate parasites on leaves and fruits of higher plants, causing diseases called powdery mildews. Erysiphales have a nearly cosmopolitan distribution, and have developed fungicide resistance just as widely. Total loss of function has resulted in some cases. The cleistothecia are minute, usually not much more than 0.1 millimetres (1⁄256 in) in diameter. From the outer wall of the cleistothecium specialised hyphae (appendages) grow out. The number of asci per ascoma varies, and is important in discriminating between genera.

Powdery mildew fungi belong to the Erysiphales order of the Ascomycota phylum. The Erysiphales belong to the Leotiomycetes class (Wang et al., 2006), in which many fungal pathogens causing serious plant disease are found, including many necrotrophic fungal pathogens that have very contrasted host range and infection strategies compared with powdery mildew fungi (Amselem et al., 2011). To date, sixteen genera containing ~ 900 species have been described in the Erysiphales order (Braun & Cook, 2012). Molecular studies of the ribosomal DNA Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) region have provided useful links between anamorphic Erysiphales and their respective teleomorphs (Cunnington et al., 2003). PCR primers for the rDNA ITS region enhanced specificity for 12 genera tested, even in the presence of contaminating fungi. Fossil structures like Protoascon missouriensis and Traquairia spp., both from the Carboniferous, and once suggested as belonging to the Erysiphales, are now believed to represent other groups of fungi (e.g. Taylor et al., 2005b; Krings et al., 2013a). If the conidial specimens described by Barthel (1961) represent fossil Erysiphales, then the order does in fact extend back to the Carboniferous. The fact that the group is confined only to angiosperms has been used to infer that the Erysiphales have evolved from a single ancestral taxon that developed the ability to parasitize plants only once (Niinomi et al., 2008). Interestingly, although studies of the powdery mildews indicate the group contains a very large genome (around 120 million base pairs), it is a parasite with few infection strategies of the host, suggesting to some that it is at an evolutionary dead end (e.g.