Zhejiang cuisine consists of at least three styles, each originating from a major city in the province: Some sources also include the Wenzhou style (Ou cuisine) as a separate subdivision due to its proximity to Fujian Province. Wenzhou style is characterised as the greatest source of seafood as well as poultry and livestock. Zhejiang cuisine, alternatively known as Zhe cuisine, is one of the Eight Culinary Traditions of Chinese cuisine. Zhejiang cuisine contains four different styles, Hangzhou, Shaoxing, Ningbo, and Wenzhou (also known as Ou cuisine). It derives from the traditional ways of cooking in Zhejiang ...

Names: Zhejiang food, Zhe cuisine (浙菜 Zhècài /jer-tseye/) Location: East China, Zhejiang Province — Hangzhou · Distinctives: mellow flavors, seafood, artistry, many cooking methods · The great seafood dishes are the main draw of this style of food. Zhejiang Cuisine originates from the populous and rich eastern province of Zhejiang on the Pacific. If you don't like spicy cuisine, but prefer fish and seafood, then this is the food style for you. Address: Floor 1, Zhejiang Xizi Hotel, 37 Nanshan Road, Xihu District (西湖区南山路37号浙江西子宾馆1楼) Our customers enjoying dinner in Guilin. We could modify our 12-Day Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Guilin, and Hong Kong Cuisine tour to go to Hangzhou, Yiwu or other cities. Zhejiang chefs have developed numerous ways to cook and prepare food. Perhaps this has something to do with their location next to Fujian, that also traditionally used diverse cooking methods, the influence of Shanghai's cosmopolitan culture, and influences from abroad. This style of "cooking" is unusual.

Zhejiang cuisine (浙菜; Zhècài or 浙江菜; zhèjiāngcài) derives from the native cooking styles of the Zhejiang region. The dishes are not greasy, having instead a fresh, soft flavor with a mellow fragrance. The cuisine consists of at least four styles, each of which originated from different cities in the province: Jiangsu cuisine (苏菜; sūcài) is one of the major components of Chinese cuisine, which consists of the styles of Huai'an, Yangzhou, Nanjing, Suzhou and Zhenjiang dishes. It is especially popular in the lower reach of the Yangtze River. Huaiyang cuisine, one of the Four Great Traditions, is a style of Jiangsu cuisine. Many traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of preservation such as drying, salting, pickling, and fermentation. Historically, the Four Great Traditions (Chinese: 四大菜系; pinyin: Sìdà càixì) of Chinese cuisine are Chuan, Lu, Yue and Huaiyang, representing West, North, South and East China cuisine correspondingly. Chinese regional cuisines are amongst the many different cuisines found in different provinces and prefectures of China as well as from larger overseas Chinese communities. A number of different styles contribute to Chinese cuisine, but perhaps the best known and most influential are Guangdong cuisine, Shandong cuisine, Huaiyang cuisine, and Sichuan cuisine. One style may favor the generous use of garlic and shallots over chili and spices, while another may favor preparing seafood over other meats and fowl. Jiangsu cuisine favors cooking techniques such as braising and stewing, while Sichuan cuisine employs baking.