Chancelor Johnathan Bennett (born April 16, 1993), known professionally as Chance the Rapper, is an American rapper. Born and raised in Chicago, Illinois, he released his debut mixtape 10 Day (2012) during one of his college suspensions. He gained mainstream recognition in 2013 following the release of his second mixtape, Acid Rap. Bennett launched a campaign in conjunction with rapperradio.com to get his music on the radio on August 17, 2016. In September 2016, H&M solicited Bennett to headline their new campaign. In November 2016, he continued on the Magnificent Coloring World Tour, but cancelled the rest of his shows on the European leg for personal reasons. In November 2016, Bennett announced during an interview with DJ Semtex that he was working on his debut album. Bennett was offered a chance to sign with Kanye West's GOOD Music in December 2016, though he refused due to his popularity as an independent artist and the freedom of not being attached to a label. Fellow rapper and Chicago native Kanye West also donated to Enyia's campaign. In the February 2019 election, Enyia finished fifth out of fourteen candidates, and did not advance to the mayoral runoff. Lori Lightfoot and Preckwinkle, who had hired Bennett's father as campaign co-chair, instead advanced to the runoff. In the runoff, Chance Bennett endorsed Preckwinkle, criticizing Lightfoot as having worked against the interests of Chicago's black community. In June 2013, Bennett was featured in a commercial for MySpace as part of their relaunch, alongside fellow American rappers Mac Miller, Pharrell Williams and Schoolboy Q, among others. In July 2013, Acid Rap debuted at number 63 on the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart, due to downloads on iTunes and Amazon. Many of Chance's earliest performances took place at the YOUmedia Lyricist Loft at Harold Washington Library in Chicago. After placing second in a local songwriting contest, Bennett met then-Chicago Mayor, Richard M. Daley who enjoyed his music. Bennett spent most of his junior year and a small amount of his senior year writing a draft for his debut project, 10 Day, which was later released after Bennett was suspended for ten days after being caught smoking cannabis.

Chance the Rapper then released his third mixtape, Coloring Book on May 13, 2016. The mixtape peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 chart to continued acclaim and was supported by the singles "Angels" and "No Problem", the latter peaked at number 43 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart. He announced and subsequently released his debut studio album, The Big Day in July 2019. ^ "Angels" did not enter the US Billboard Hot 100, but peaked at number 19 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. The discography of American rapper Chance the Rapper consists of one studio album, five mixtapes and 27 singles (including 14 singles as a featured artist). Chance the Rapper released his debut mixtape, 10 Day on April 3, 2012. The mixtape was followed up with the release of Acid Rap the following ... ^ "Summer Friends" did not enter the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, but peaked at number two on the Bubbling Under R&B/Hip-Hop Singles chart. ^ "Work Out" did not enter the US Billboard Hot 100, but peaked at number 19 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. ^ "Work Out" did not enter the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, but peaked at number four on the Bubbling Under R&B/Hip-Hop Singles chart.

Best Known For: Chance the Rapper is a hip-hop artist, producer and social activist whose mixtape 'Coloring Book' became the first album to win a Grammy based solely on streaming. Chance the Rapper is a hip-hop artist, producer and social activist whose mixtape 'Coloring Book,' is the first album to win a Grammy based solely on streaming. Drawing generally favorable — if somewhat mixed — reviews, and featuring a diverse array of collaborators that included John Legend, Shawn Mendes and Death Cab for Cutie, the album debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard 200. Chance’s interest in social justice, welfare and education stem partly from his upbringing, partly from his own awareness and conscience, but also from becoming a father himself in 2015, to a daughter, Kensli. He and Kensli's mother, Kirsten Corley, announced their engagement on July 4, 2018, and were married the following March. (Profile photo of Chance the Rapper by Matthew Eisman/Getty Images) Chance the Rapper is one of the biggest breakout stars of the past few years, achieving fame and success in an unorthodox way — by avoiding the major labels that want to sign him. Fiercely independent and articulate, he’s found a way to please both the backpacker fans and a much wider audience through savvy collaborations with the likes of Lil Wayne and Kanye West.