The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) is a small icterid blackbird common in eastern North America as a migratory breeding bird. It received its name from the resemblance of the male's colors to those on the coat-of-arms of 17th-century Lord Baltimore. Observations of interbreeding between the Baltimore oriole and the western Bullock's oriole Icterus bullockii, led to both being classified as a single species, called the northern oriole, from 1973 to 1995. The range of this bird overlaps with that of the similar Bullock's oriole in the Midwest, and the two species were once considered to be conspecific under the name northern oriole because they form fertile hybrids. The Baltimore oriole is a rare vagrant to Western Europe. The Baltimore oriole is the state bird of Maryland, and the namesake and mascot for the Baltimore Orioles baseball team. The Baltimore oriole was formally described in 1758 by the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus in the tenth edition of his Systema Naturae under the binomial name Coracias galbula. He specified the type locality as America, but this was restricted to Virginia in 1931. Linnaeus based his account on the "Baltimore-Bird" that had been described and illustrated by the English naturalist Mark Catesby in his The Natural History of Carolina, Florida and the Bahama Islands that was published between 1729 and 1732. The Baltimore oriole is now one of 32 New World orioles placed in the genus Icterus that was introduced in 1760 by the French ornithologist Mathurin Jacques Brisson. The species is monotypic: no subspecies are recognised. Like all New World orioles, this species is named after an unrelated, physically similar family found in the Old World: the Oriolidae. The word "Oriole" ultimately derives from the Latin aureolus, "golden".

This is the reproductive... ... Animals that do not make seasonal movements and stay in their native home ranges all year round are called not migrants or residents. ... The western oriole measures 21 centimetres (8.3 in) in length, and weighs 42 to 57 g (1.5 to 2.0 oz). Equatorial Guinea, Angola, Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, DR Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Gabon, Ghana, Show More Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda Show Less ... The western oriole is native to the rainforests of Sierra Leone, Guinea, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Benin, and Ghana. It is found in western and central Africa. It lives either individually or in pairs in canopies of lowland primary forests, secondary forests, forest clearings with shrubs, and forest edges. Show Less ... Since 1988, the western oriole has been rated as a species of least concern on the IUCN Red List of Endangered Species. Although the population size has not been measured, it is thought to be more than the threshold required to warrant it a vulnerable rating. Habitat loss is one reason for its population decline. 1. Western oriole Wikipedia article - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Western_oriole

Baltimore orioles are common in summer across most of the eastern states and southeastern Canada, with smaller numbers spending the winter in the southeastern states. ... The Baltimore oriole’s close relative, the Bullock’s oriole replaces it in the western half of the continent. Where the two types meet on the western Great Plains, they often interbreed, producing hybrids that look intermediate between their parents. For several years, the two types of orioles were combined as one species under the name of northern oriole but were later separated. The well-named orchard oriole favors short trees and semi-open areas, such as orchards or the edges of woods, rather than the interior of tall forests. Widespread in summer in states east of the Rockies but barely reaching Canada, this oriole is most common in the South. Birders are sometimes confused by 1-year-old male orchard orioles, which are colored like the females, but with a black throat. Like adult males, they perch on low trees to sing rapid, jumbled songs. Even where this species is very common, it may migrate south early, leaving before the middle of August.