Jef Raskin was born in New York City to a secular Jewish family, whose surname is a matronymic from "Raske", Yiddish nickname for Rachel. He received a BA in mathematics and a BS in physics with minors in philosophy and music from Stony Brook University. In 1967, he received a master's degree in computer science from Pennsylvania State University, after having switched from mathematical logic due to differences of opinion with his advisor. Raskin curated several art shows including one featuring his collection of unusual toys, and presenting toys as works of art. During this period, he changed the spelling of his name from "Jeff" to "Jef" after having met Jon Collins and liking the lack of extraneous letters. His work is being extended and carried on by his son Aza Raskin at Humanized, a company that was started shortly after Raskin's death to continue his legacy. Humanized released Enso, a linguistic command-line interface, which is based on Jef's work and dedicated in his memory. Raskin published a paper highly critical of pseudoscience in nursing, such as therapeutic touch and Rogerian science, wherein he said: "Unlike science, nursing theory has no built-in mechanisms for rejecting falsehoods, tautologies, and irrelevancies." Jef Raskin married Linda S. Jef Raskin (born Jeff Raskin; March 9, 1943 – February 26, 2005) was an American human–computer interface expert who conceived and began leading the Macintosh project at Apple in the late 1970s. Jef Raskin was born in New York City to a secular Jewish family, whose surname is a matronymic ...

Jef Raskin, a computer technology pioneer who started the team that created the Macintosh computer, died Saturday at his home in Pacifica, Calif., at age 61. Mr. Raskin left Apple in 1982 after his relationship with Steve Jobs, the company's co-founder, soured. By almost any measure, Mr. Raskin was a Renaissance man. "At that time, computers were for nerds," said Bill Atkinson, a software designer who Mr. Raskin recruited to work at Apple in 1978. "You had to be some kind of geek to even want to use a computer.

Jef Raskin was Apple Computer's thirty-first employee, its manager of publications, and manager of the Macintosh project from 1979 to 1982. He studied mathematics and philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, and computer science at Penn State. Before joining Apple he taught computer science at the University of California, San Diego; was a visiting scholar at Stanford University; worked as a musician, conductor, and music teacher in the Bay Area; and founded the technical publishing firm Bannister & Crun. Raskin is currently Vice-President for Human Interaction at Telocity, a broadband service provider. The interview was conducted in Jef Raskin's Telocity office in Cupertino, on 13 April 2000. The interview was transcribed and edited by Alex Pang, and reviewed by Jef Raskin. Raskin: It was not a formal relationship at any point. I had been a visiting scholar at Stanford University in their Artificial Intelligence Lab, starting in 1972 and then again in 1973, when I was a professor at the University of California at San Diego. The people at the AI lab were tightly intermixed with the people at PARC: people just flowed back and forth along Arastadero Road [Raskin: Should this be Page Mill?] from one to the other.