A detinets (Russian: детинец [dʲɪˈtʲinʲɪts]; Ukrainian: дитинець [dɪˈtɪnɛtsʲ]) or detinetz (/ˈdɛtɪnɛts/ DET-in-ets) is an ancient Rus' city-fort or central fortified part of a city, similar to the meaning of kremlin or citadel. The term was used in many regions, ... From the 13th to the 14th century, detinets were used only in the Russian Pskov-Novgorod region. The origin of the term is uncertain. Some derive it from the Old East Slavic word deti—"children", suggesting it was used to hide children and other less able people during a siege. Polish philologist Lucyjan Malinowski derives the similarly sounding Polish term dziedziniec–"courtyard", from detinets.

The kremlin surrounds an area measuring 22.7 hectares and inside there are several administrative buildings and monuments as well as the Archangel Michael Cathedral. Nizhny Novgorod, Nizhny Novgorod region (Volga Federal District) The fortress in Novgorod is traditionally known as the Novgorod Detinets rather than the Novgorod Kremlin, but the terms are often used interchangeably and there is no real difference in meaning. In the 19th century the Detinets had fallen into a state of disrepair and in 1862 a large part of the walls collapsed. More damage was inflicted during the Second World War, but large-scale reconstruction work was carried out in the 1950s and 1960s. Inside the kremlin are the famous St Sophia's Cathedral and the Millennium of Russia Monument Bell. To many tourists the word kremlin refers only to the Moscow Kremlin, but Moscow is not the only Russian city to have a kremlin, which is the Russian word for a mediaeval fortress which represented the centre of the city and the seat of the local prince or governor. A fortification which did not surround the centre of a city is just called a fortress (крепость/krepost in Russian). Fortified monasteries also should not be confused with kremlins, although they too are sometimes incorrectly called kremlins.

A kremlin (/ˈkrɛmlɪn/ KREM-lin ; Russian: кремль, romanized: kremlj, IPA: [ˈkrʲemlʲ] ) is a major fortified central complex found in historic Russian cities. The word is often used to refer to the Moscow Kremlin and metonymically to the government based there. Other such fortresses are called detinets, such as the Novgorod Detinets. Aesthetically wooden fortresses were not inferior to stone ones—and we can regret that the towers of wooden kremlins have not survived to this day. Wooden fortresses were built quickly: in 1638 in Mtsensk fortress walls of Bolshoi Ostrog and Pletny Gorod with a total length of about 3 kilometres with 13 towers and almost one hundred meters long bridge over the River Zusha were erected in 20 days. The town of Sviyazhsk was built similarly during the Kazan campaign in the spring of 1551: fortress walls about 2.5 kilometres long, many churches and houses were erected in a month. The same structure in Novgorodshina, Ukraine and other Old Russian territories is also called dytynets (Ukrainian: дитинець, from dytyna – child). The term has been in use since the 11th century. The term kremlin first appeared in 14th century in various Russian territories, where it replaced dytynets. Many Russian monasteries have been built in a fortress-like style similar to that of a kremlin. In the 8th century, the earliest known stone and wooden fortress—Lubšanská fortress near Staraya Ladoga was built. The ancient stone and wooden kremlins include a fortress on Truvorov settlement near Izborsk (9th century) and the first Stara Ladoga Kremlin (the end of the 9th century, later rebuilt). Single stone towers, gates and bends of walls appeared in other cities (Vladimir, Kyiv, Novgorod, Pereyaslavl): the Golden Gate of Kievan citadel and the gate of the Vladimir Kremlin bearing the same name survived.