After 12 BC, it was the sole mint producing gold and silver coinage for the whole Roman Empire, a position it retained until Nero moved production back to Rome in 64 AD. In its 1st century, Lugdunum was many times the object of attention or visits by the emperors or the imperial family, with its matrimonial regime of power using killing family members. Agrippa, Drusus, Tiberius, and Germanicus (born himself in Lugdunum) were among the gubernatorial generals who served in Lugdunum. The Roman city was founded in 43 BC by Lucius Munatius Plancus, but continued an existing Gallic settlement with a likely population of several thousands. It served as the capital of the Roman province of Gallia Lugdunensis and was an important city in the western half of the Roman Empire for centuries. Two emperors, Claudius and Caracalla, were born in Lugdunum. Claudius was born in Lugdunum in 10 BC and lived there for at least two years. As emperor, he returned in 43 AD en route to his conquest of Britain and stopped again after its victorious conclusion in 47. A fountain honoring his victory has been uncovered. He continued to take a supportive interest in the town, making its noblemen eligible to serve in the Roman Senate, as described above. Today, the pieces of the huge plaque are the pride of the Gallo-Roman Museum in Lyon. Caligula spent time in Lugdunum in 39–40 AD, at the beginning of his third consulate; the historian Suetonius described the visit as characteristic of this emperor's strange and extravagant reign. Spectacles were staged at the amphitheater to honor and entertain Caligula and his guest, Ptolemy, king of Mauretania (whom the emperor later had murdered). In March 68 AD, a Romanized Aquitainian named Caius Julius Vindex, who was governor of Gallia Lugdunensis led an uprising intended to replace Nero with Galba, a Roman governor of Spain. The citizens of Vienne, however, responded more enthusiastically than the Lyonnais, most of whom remained loyal to Nero. A small force from Vienne briefly besieged Lugdunum, but withdrew when Vindex was defeated by the Rhine legions a few weeks later at Vesontio. Despite the defeat of Vindex, rebellion grew. Nero committed suicide in June and Galba was proclaimed emperor.

When Lyon was called Lugdunum Just heading south east from Roanne, where you just had your French courses in France, you will not be able to miss the country’s third city by its population : Lyon. The city is known mainly for its gastronomy and the number of chefs it… But the history of Lyon is deeply rooted in France’s one. During the time of the Roman empire, ot was called Lugdunum, which means the hill or the fortress of the god Lugus, who was a Gaullish deity, widely recognized as the local equivalent of the Roman god Mercury. Thus, eight years after the Battle of Alesia in 52 BC, that symbolizes the defeat of the gaulish tribes united by their leader Vercingetorix, that saw the victory of the Roman legions, the colony was founded under the Roman senate order. The governor of Gaul Lucius Munatius Plancus was in charge of that task, thus explaining the original and full name of the city Colonia Copia Felix Munatia Lugudunum. Oh! You may have noticed that in this version of the same, it is not Lugdunum, but LugUdunum with an extra “U”. Both versions are correct even if the first is the one most commonly known. During the first two centuries of Lugdunum, its population reached around 100,000 thousands people.

After the mid-third-century, the Rhine border was threatened and the seat of the Roman government was transferred to the northeast, where Cologne, Mainz, and Trier became increasingly important. For Lyon, this was the beginning of a slow decline. There were no funds to restore the aqueduct, so important for a large city, when it had fallen into disrepair. Still, the city was frequently visited by emperors (e.g., Constantine the Great) and usurpers (e.g., Magnentius, who committed suicide in Lyon). In 185, the future emperor Caracalla was born in Lyon. In an international city, there would be people from the east, including exiles (e.g., the Herodian tetrarch Antipas of Galilee) and Christians. In 177, they were cruelly persecuted; the Acts of the Martyrs of Lyon is a terrible source to read. This second town may have been called Lugudunon (“hill of Lugus”; attested on a coin from 42 BCE), from which Latin Lugdunum was derived. Situated near the confluence of two important rivers, one connecting the area with the Moselle and Rhine, the other leading in the general direction of the Upper Danube, we can imagine early Lyon as a trade center. This is confirmed by the presence of Italian amphoras and Greek pottery. The Romans conquered the valley of the Rhône from the south, first subjecting the Allobroges in c.120 BCE. Having gained control of the area, the Romans founded the city of Vienna, modern Vienne. When an Allobrogian leader named Catugnatus revolted and expelled the Roman merchants, the latter went up north and took over Lugdunum. In this confused situation, the Helvetii announced that they would migrate downstream along the Rhône and proceed to Aquitania, which was sufficient for the Roman general Julius Caesar to intervene.