A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. A lock () or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. ... These crimes are not violent, but they are not victimless. White-collar crimes can destroy a company, wipe out a person's life savings, cost investors billions of dollars, and erode the public's trust in institutions. The FBI's white-collar crime program focuses on analyzing intelligence and solving complex investigations—often with a connection to organized crime activities. Our white-collar crime investigations can be regional, national, and/or international. An official website of the United States government.

Neal Caffrey, a renowned con artist, forger, and thief, is captured after a three-year game of cat and mouse with the FBI, specifically Special Agent Peter Burke, the head agent of the FBI’s White Collar Crimes Unit at the FBI's New York City field office. He is convicted and sentenced to four years in prison. White Collar is an American police procedural television series created by Jeff Eastin, starring Tim DeKay as FBI Special Agent Peter Burke and Matt Bomer as Neal Caffrey, a highly intelligent, charming and multi-talented con artist, forger, and thief, working as both Burke's criminal informant and an FBI consultant. This time, Caffrey proposes a deal to help Burke apprehend dangerous white collar criminals with the FBI. He will also give them full time consultation in exchange for his early release from prison as part of a work-release program. After some hesitation, Burke agrees, resulting in Neal being released early from prison and working as an FBI consultant and Burke's criminal informant. They begin an unconventional and testy relationship as they set out to capture elusive and dangerous white collar criminals in New York City. Matt Bomer as Neal Caffrey, a con artist, forger, and thief who works as an FBI consultant and Burke's informant Beau Bridges as FBI Special Agent Phillip Kramer, Peter's instructor at the FBI Academy · Moran Atias as Christie, a doctor and Diana's girlfriend · Andrew McCarthy as Vincent Adler, an investor and con man · Titus Welliver as Senator Terrance Pratt, Neal's father's captain ... ION Television acquired the rights for syndication of White Collar in 2013 along with Burn Notice.

A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. A lock () or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. ... White Collar Crime, a term reportedly first coined in 1939, is synonymous with the full range of frauds committed by business and government professionals. An official website of the United States government.