In January 2024, The Punisher saw a notable increase in viewership on Disney+ after the release of Echo on the platform. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the first season holds a 68% approval rating with an average rating of 6.7/10 based on 80 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "A rocky start can't keep The Punisher from pushing the boundaries of Marvel's TV universe with a fresh take on the comics-derived action thriller." Development on a spin-off began by January 2016, and Netflix ordered the series that April when the involvement of Bernthal and Lightfoot was confirmed. The series explores the title character's grief and violence, and was filmed in New York City. The first season was released in its entirety on Netflix on November 17, 2017, followed by the second on January 18, 2019. They were met with mixed reviews, but received several accolades including a Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Award nomination. Netflix cancelled The Punisher on February 18, 2019. By January 2016, ahead of the Daredevil season two release, Netflix was in "very early development" on a spin-off series titled The Punisher, and was looking for a showrunner. The series would be centered on Bernthal as Castle, and was described as a stand-alone series, outside of the series leading up to The Defenders. Filming for the series takes place in New York City, including Brooklyn, and Astoria, Queens. In April 2017, Tyler Bates was announced as the composer for The Punisher, after previously composing for Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2. The Punisher was released on the streaming service Netflix, worldwide. He continued that as time has passed, Marvel Studios has begun to see "how well integrated the [Marvel Television] stories are" and personally felt "confident" in saying Daredevil specifically was part of the Sacred Timeline. With Echo's release, all of the Netflix series were retroactively added to the MCU Disney+ timeline, with The Punisher placed alongside the Phase Three content of the MCU, after Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017).

As a huge fan of Marvel I'm a little biased because I pretty much like everything they put out. My bias aside, The Punisher is terrific! It's actually my favorite Marvel show (along with Daredevil). If you don't believe me just read through the reviews here and look at the ratings. Even the critics loved this. Jon Bernthal was born to play The Punisher. He's easily the best part of the show. He's one of the most underrated actors working today. Everything he's in is great! This is a show that you'll want to binge as quickly as you can, it's that good. It's too bad that Netflix couldn't renew their contracts with Marvel and they had to stop making the Netflix Marvel shows because every single one of them was great! Now that they're on Disney they can bring these wonderful characters back. They already started to with Daredevil and Kingpin and just renewed Daredevil for another season. Now they have to do the same for The Punisher, Luke Cage and Jessica Jones. The Punisher made his first appearance in the pages of "The Amazing Spider-Man #129" in February 1974.

By January 2016, ahead of the Daredevil season two release, Netflix was in "very early development" on a spin-off series titled The Punisher, and was looking for a showrunner. The series would be centered on Jon Bernthal as Frank Castle / Punisher, and was described as a stand-alone series apart from those leading up to The Defenders crossover event. In September 2017, the series' Instagram account released viral videos made to look like security footage, while episodic photos and a poster for the season with a redacted release date were also released. On September 20, the official trailer for the season was released. Andrew Liptak of The Verge said it "sets up The Punisher with its own distinct tone that's different from the other Marvel Netflix shows. She added that "if this trailer is any indication, The Punisher is definitely going to live up to fan expectations". Ashley felt the inclusion of "One" by Metallica in the trailer "helps paint Frank as a badass unlike any we've seen on the Marvel Netflix shows so far." Cooper Hood, writing for Screen Rant felt the trailer would "only increase the fever for" the series despite it not yet having a release date, with it more closely fitting the "mold" of the character than the more cryptic videos previously released. Bernthal hoped that these two shootings and the release of the season would together help further the discussion on gun violence, with "all sides of this debate" represented in The Punisher. The season, along with the additional Punisher seasons and the other Marvel Netflix series, was removed from Netflix on March 1, 2022, due to Netflix's license for the series ending and Disney regaining the rights. The first season of The Punisher was released on November 17, 2017, on the streaming service Netflix, worldwide.