It is named after the 17th-century Welsh privateer of the Caribbean, Sir Henry Morgan. In 1944 the Seagram Company started manufacturing the Captain Morgan brand of rum. In 1984, Captain Morgan Original Spiced Rum was introduced to the United States. In 2001 the Captain Morgan brand was sold to Diageo, a multinational drinks company based in London. On 15 April 2005, Captain Morgan Tattoo Black Spiced rum and its claimed 'sweet-to-heat' finish became another addition to the Captain Morgan line. Captain Morgan was, by volume, the second largest brand of spirits in the United States, and the seventh largest worldwide in 2007. It was understood that for each NFL player striking the "Captain Morgan" pose on camera during a regular season game, Diageo would donate US$10,000 (equivalent to $14,202 in 2023) to the Gridiron Greats (a non-profit which helps retired NFL players with various hardships after leaving the game). In 2014, Diageo Canada filed a trade dress infringement lawsuit against Heaven Hill Distilleries Inc, claiming striking similarities between the Captain Morgan character and Admiral Nelson, and that the similarity would dilute the Captain Morgan trademark. Original Spiced Rum – The flagship Captain Morgan rum, flavored with spices. Reformulated in 2023 to include Madagascar vanilla. Bottled at 35% alcohol by volume (70 proof). 100 Proof Spiced Rum – Original Captain Morgan, bottled at 50% alcohol by volume (100 proof).

Famous for its namesake mascot and reputation as a college party staple, Captain Morgan was founded in Jamaica 1944 by the Seagram Company. The brand’s flagship Spiced Rum was introduced to the United States in 1984 and was an instant hit, thanks in part to its now ubiquitous pirate-emblazoned label. Famous for its namesake mascot, Captain Morgan rum was founded in Jamaica in 1944. Here are nine more things you should know about the brand. The brand was purchased by Diageo in 2001, and production was shifted to the U.S. Virgin Islands about a decade later. Captain Morgan is now the third best-selling rum in the world according to The Spirits Business, selling roughly 12 million cases of the stuff per year. In the early 1940s, Seagram’s CEO Samuel Bronfman purchased the Long Pond distillery from the Jamaican government and started producing raw rum under the name Captain Morgan Rum Company. One of the rum buyers, Levy Brothers pharmacy in Kingston, infused the rum with medicinal herbs and spices before aging it and bottling it for sale in their shop.

Although, we can’t be held accountable for any pirate behavior while sipping Captain Morgan should the mood strike. In all seriousness, Captain Morgan’s rum has a charming history that brought us a rum that quickly became a staple in every liquor collection. Now that we’ve enjoyed a little history about the person who was Captain Morgan, let’s discuss the rum itself. How does such a sweet and spicy bottle of rum come to be? It all began when locals in the Caribbean started squeezing the sweet juices from sugarcane hundreds of years ago. Today, Captain Morgan is created with yeast, molasses, water, and mash. That beautiful golden color and sweet taste comes from the molasses (sugarcane). After distilling, it’s aged in oak barrels for up to a year. The darker the barrel, the darker the color of the rum. Sit back and enjoy a little history about Captain Morgan’s rum.