Post-merger media speculation about the control of brands from the Takara Tomy merger arose from the new use of a "TOMY" copyright on all packaging (including former Takara brands shipped by Hasbro) (but this was merely a consequence of the decision to use only the Tomy name in international subsidiaries). The studio then became a full subsidiary of Takara Tomy following the March 2006 merger until Nippon Television bought out the majority of Tatsunoko's stake in 2014. Tomy UK was founded in 1982 for the sale and distribution of Tomy products in Europe, and it has successfully brought toys such as Zoids, and games like Pop-up Pirate, to the West. The anime became a huge hit, and sales of related products doubled. Tomy (who had been the third largest company in the toy industry since the 1980s) rose to second place in 1997. In 2001, competitor Takara's hit franchise, Beyblade, and Pokémon's slump saw Takara regaining second place and Tomy falling again to third. It was established in 1924 by Eiichirō Tomiyama as Tomiyama Toy Manufacturing Company (富山玩具製作所), became known for creating popular toys like the B-29 friction toy and luck-based game Pop-up Pirate. In 2006, Tomy merged with another toy manufacturer, Takara, and although the English company name remained the same, it became Takara Tomy in Asia. This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 2 November 2024. Tomy Company, Ltd. (株式会社タカラトミー, Kabushikigaisha Takara Tomī) (trading as Takara Tomy in Asia and Tomy elsewhere) is a Japanese toy company. It was established in 1924 by Eiichirō Tomiyama as Tomiyama Toy ...

Nobuyuki Okude, one of the original Diaclone designers who oversaw the production of the modified toys for Hasbro's Transformers line, would later rise to become Takara's vice president and for a brief time even held the position of the company's president. Tomy (トミー) was founded by Eiichiro Tomiyama in 1924 as Tomiyama Toy Factory. In 1963 they changed their name to Tomy. Their American branch opened in 1973, with branches following in Canada in 1981 and the UK in 1982. Two pre-merger Transformers designed by Tomy were Omega Supreme and Sky Lynx, patterned after their Plarail and Zoids toylines, respectively, by designer Junichi Ishikawa (石川順一). As of April 2006, both companies ceased to exist and made way for the new company, TakaraTomy. Fortunately, Tomy had established a healthy working relationship with Hasbro since 1999, long before their merger with Takara—which is why the merger didn't have any major effects on the established Hasbro/Takara cooperation (including the toy development process). For the international, English-speaking world, the merged company is officially simply named "Tomy", for pragmatic reasons (as most of Takara's internationally renowned brands are distributed through other companies, such as Hasbro, outside Japan). Indeed, Tomy is mentioned as the licensor on all Transformers toy product released by Hasbro after the merger. Tomy has its own label, "Tomy Direct", for releasing imported Hasbro products (such as Star Wars toys) in Hasbro packaging in Japan, similar to Takara's USA Editions. The huge difference is that USA Editions might still sport differences with their Hasbro counterparts, whereas Tomy Direct releases are really just the Hasbro toys. Since Tomy's merger with Takara, the Tomy division of TakaraTomy has also released various Transformers-related toys under the Tomy Direct label, usually toys which were developed without any input from Takara's design team and/or figures from multi-brand lines such as the Titanium Series (which originally started out as a Star Wars sub-line) and the "Heroes" mini-figure franchise (which includes the Transformers-based Robot Heroes, but also the Star Wars-derived Galactic Heroes, the Marvel-based Superhero Squad and various others).

Takara Tomy is a company involved in Tomica. They are based in Tokyo, Japan. Takara Tomy was formed March 1st, 2006, by the merge of two separate toy companies, Takara and Tomy. Aside from the Tomica line, which originated under the Tomy brand, they are known for producing many other popular toylines and their associated franchises, including Plarail, Transformers, Beyblade, Zoids and Licca-chan. Welcome to Tomica Wiki. You may wish to create or login to an account in order to have full editing access to this wiki. ... 509 (as of March 31, 2019) Takara Tomy is a company involved in Tomica.