You may begin to feel irregular contractions, but it can take many hours, or even days, before you're in established labour. It's usually the longest stage of labour. At this stage, your contractions may range from being slightly uncomfortable to more painful. There’s no set pattern to how many contractions you get or how long they last. The 3rd stage of labour happens after your baby is born, when your womb contracts and the placenta comes out through your vagina. ... Your midwife will explain both ways to you while you're still pregnant or during early labour, so you can decide which you would prefer. There are some situations where physiological management is not advisable. When you reach the end of the 1st stage of labour, you may feel an urge to push. Your midwife will monitor you and your baby during labour to make sure you're both coping well. This will include using a small handheld device to listen to your baby's heart every 15 minutes. You'll be free to move around as much as you want. Your midwife may suggest electronic monitoring if there are any concerns about you or your baby, or if you choose to have an epidural. Active management speeds up the delivery of the placenta and lowers your risk of having heavy bleeding after the birth (postpartum haemorrhage), but it increases the chance of you feeling and being sick. It can also make afterpains (contraction-like pains after birth) worse. Read more about preventing heavy bleeding after birth. No oxytocin injection is given, and the 3rd stage of labour happens naturally.

Labor is the process through which a fetus and placenta are delivered from the uterus through the vagina.[1] Human labor is divided into 3 stages. The first stage is further divided into 2 phases. Successful labor involves 3 factors: maternal efforts and uterine contractions, fetal characteristics, and pelvic anatomy.[1] This triad is called the passenger, power, and passage.[1] Clinicians typically use multiple modalities to monitor labor. Labor is a process that is subdivided into 3 stages. The first stage starts when labor begins and ends with full cervical dilation and effacement. The second stage commences with complete cervical dilation and ends with the delivery of the fetus. The third stage initiates after the fetus is delivered and ends when the placenta is delivered. The first stage of labor begins when labor starts and ends with full cervical dilation to 10 centimeters.[1] Labor often begins spontaneously or may be induced medically for various maternal or fetal indications.[5] Methods of inducing labor include cervical ripening with prostaglandins, membrane stripping, amniotomy, and intravenous oxytocin.[5] Although precisely determining when labor starts may be inexact, labor is generally defined as beginning when contractions become strong and regularly spaced at approximately 3 to 5 minutes apart.[1] Women may experience painful contractions throughout pregnancy that do not lead to cervical dilation or effacement, referred to as false labor. Friedman et al were some of the first to study labor progress and defined the beginning of labor as starting when women felt significant and regular contractions.[6] He graphed cervical dilation over time and determined that normal labor is sigmoidal. Based on the analysis of his labor graphs, he proposed that labor has 3 divisions. First, a preparatory stage is marked by slow cervical dilation, with large biochemical and structural changes.