It was important for the development of Toruń’s commercial power that the city, engaged in overseas trade, became a member of the merchant association called the Hanseatic League or the Association of Hanseatic Cities around 1280. Members of the Hansa, besides Toruń, included Chełmno, Elbląg, Gdańsk, Królewiec and Braniewo, as well as German, Dutch, Pomeranian, Livonian and Swedish towns. From the very beginning the policy of the Hanseatic League was directed by the conventions of the constituent cities. Toruń’s trade reached its peak in the 14th century. The wealth of the merchants and their contribution to the development of the city were clearly reflected in the magnificent Gothic architecture of Toruń. The newcomers, often coming from the merchant families of large cities, almost immediately started trading with their hometowns, thus initiating large-scale trade in our city developed in later centuries. Toruń merchants exchanged goods between the south-eastern and north-western parts of Europe. Thanks to the capital accumulated from trade, the wealthiest merchants decorated our city with more and more beautiful tenement houses, at the same time gaining authority and respect. They were the patricians who exercised power in the city. At that time, Toruń’s merchants were known in almost all parts of Europe, from Rus, Hungary, Silesia and Lesser Poland to Sweden, England, the Netherlands and Flanders.

The word Spruce is a reminder that large consignments of wood going west were imported "from Prussia" (z Prus in Polish), an area that was part of the commercial and cultural community created by merchants of the Hanseatic League. ... Toruń's participation in the Hanseatic League was particularly active. They also traded in furs and Hungarian copper. The inhabitants of Toruń were the elders of the Bruges cantor, as well as the mayors of the herring fisheries in Skåne. In the years 1358-1403 representatives of Toruń took part in 40 out of 48 meetings of the Hanseatic League. It is also worth mentioning that the elites of the Hanseatic cities were families related to each other, so the community was a kind of a really big family. In the first half of the 13th century the building of the Teutonic Knights' power in Chełmno land began, and later the expansion in Prussia and Livonia. The creation of the state found expression in the founding of numerous cities, including - already at the very beginning - Toruń and Chełmno. What was the Hanseatic League? This is a question that is difficult to answer fully and concisely at the same time. For the merchant ruler of the seas escapes strict definitional frameworks, appearing rather as one of a kind. By reducing this phenomenon to an encyclopaedic buzzword, it is easy to lose the complexity and uniqueness of a creation that successfully lasted and developed for more than four centuries.

German colonists in the 12th and 13th centuries settled in numerous cities on and near the east Baltic coast, such as Elbing (Elbląg), Thorn (Toruń), Reval (Tallinn), Riga, and Dorpat (Tartu), all of which joined the League, and some of which retain Hansa buildings and bear the style of their Hanseatic days. Scandinavians led the Baltic trade before the League, establishing major trading hubs at Birka, Haithabu, and Schleswig by the 9th century CE. The later Hanseatic ports between Mecklenburg and Königsberg (present-day Kaliningrad) originally formed part of the Scandinavian-led Baltic trade system. Cities from the east modern-day Low Countries, but also Utrecht, Holland, Zealand, Brabant, Namur, and modern Limburg joined in participation over the thirteenth century. This network of Hanseatic trading guilds became called the Kaufmannshanse in historiography. The League succeeded in establishing additional Kontors in Bruges (Flanders), Bryggen in Bergen (Norway), and London (England) beside the Peterhof in Novgorod. Several Hanseatic cities maintained their warships and in times of need, repurposed merchant ships. Military action against political powers often involved an ad hoc coalition of stakeholders, called an alliance (tohopesate). As an essential part of protecting their investments, League members trained pilots and erected lighthouses, including Kõpu Lighthouse. Under the 1395 release agreement for Albert, Stockholm was ruled from 1395 to 1398 by a consortium of 7 Hanseatic cities, and enjoyed full Hanseatic trading privileges. It went to Margaret in 1398. The Victual Brothers controlled Gotland in 1398. It was conquered by the Teutonic Order with support from the Prussian towns and its privileges were restored. The grandmaster of the Teutonic Order was often seen as the head of the Hanse (caput Hansae), both abroad and by some League members. Over the 15th century, the League became further institutionalized. This was in part a response to challenges in governance and competition with rivals, but also reflected changes in trade.