12 de Octubre is a western department of Chaco Province in Argentina. The provincial subdivision has a population of about 20,000 inhabitants in an area of 2,576 km2, and its capital city is General Pinedo, which is located around 1,060 km from the Capital federal.

Página 12 (sometimes stylised as Pagina/12, Pagina|12 or Pagina12) is a newspaper published in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It was founded on 25 May 1987 by journalist Jorge Lanata and writers Osvaldo Soriano and Alberto Elizalde Leal. His first president was businessman Fernando Sokolowicz, in 1994 Grupo Clarín supposedly owned a share. The publishers also distribute a supplement covering Rosario area news, Rosario 12, since 1991. Since 2016 the newspaper is property of Grupo Octubre, a multimedia company created by Víctor Santa María, president of the Justicialist Party in the Buenos Aires. Santa María had used the union funding to start the "Octubre" group, which also includes the newspaper Diario Z, the magazines Caras y Caretas and Planeta urbano as well as two radio stations. Página 12 is one of the most popular newspapers in Argentina, being the fourth most visited portal in the news area. When Julio Nudler, who was the head of the economic department of Página 12, impeached the chief of the Kirchner cabinet with corruption allegations in 2004 the directorate of Página 12 refused to publish an article of Nudler. When Jorge Bergoglio was elected as Pope Francis, Página 12 published renewed allegations about his actions during the Dirty War. However, due to the Pope's popularity in Argentina, Cristina Kirchner made what the political analyst Claudio Fantini called a "Copernican shift" in her relations with him and fully embraced the Francis phenomenon. The Polish League Against Defamation, linked to Polish president Andrzej Duda, sued Página 12 in 2018 for an article about the Jedwabne pogrom, with the Polish organization citing the Amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. President of the Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina (AMIA) criticized the lawsuit, stating it was "an abominable act of censorship and undermines the debate over historically proven data."

General Pinedo is a town in the south of the province of Chaco, Argentina. It has about 16,000 inhabitants as per the 2001 census [INDEC], and is the head town of the 12 de Octubre Department. Municipal information: Municipal Affairs Federal Institute (IFAM), Municipal Affairs Secretariat, ...