THE FUTURE OF MANKIND CAN TAKE ONE OF TWO DIRECTIONS...… Bruce Sterling’s Shaper/Mechanist series (1982-1985) consists of several short stories and only one book, Schismatrix. The series revolves around a conflict between two ideologically divided factions: the Shapers who dream of a transhumanist utopia via biogenetic engineering, and the Mechanists who strive for perfection through machine implants and computer circuits. Bruce Sterling was one of the leaders of the Cyperpunk movement in science fiction and Schismatrix is the central novel of Sterling's shaper/mechanist universe. The Schismatrix is the whole extraterrestrial mankind after departure from exploited and polluted earth to orbital stations around the moon, in the asteroid belt, the Saturn rings or other places in the solar system. A schisma of mankind into shapers and mechanists took place with shapers focussing on genetical engineering and mechanists using mechanical implants to extend and improve life. The factions are fighting each other in wars lasting generations. He can alter the direction of man's destiny--if he can survive.. SCHISMATRIX · GenresScience FictionCyberpunkFictionScience Fiction FantasySpeculative FictionSpace OperaNovels ... Bruce Sterling is an author, journalist, critic and a contributing editor of Wired magazine.

Schismatrix (/skɪzˈmætrɪks/) is a science fiction novel by Bruce Sterling, originally published in 1985. The story was Sterling's only novel-length treatment of the Shaper/Mechanist universe. Five short stories preceded the novel and are published together with it in a 1996 edition entitled Schismatrix Plus. This was Sterling's first published story. "Spider Rose" (1982; set in 2283) – An ancient Mechanist from the fringes of the solar system buys something new from the Investors: a pet. Spider Rose herself appears very briefly during happier times in Schismatrix. "Cicada Queen" (1983; set in 2354) – A Shaper named Landau comes of age politically inside Czarina-Kluster, a habitat independent of faction where backroom deals and social cliques dominate, and whose stability is becoming increasingly fragile. Sterling only hints at many of the tenets of post-humanism, but a key goal of post-humanists is terraforming, which they consider to be a primal duty of intelligent beings. Post-humanists are supporters of détente. Wellspring is a key ideologue for the post-humanist philosophy. Dave Langford reviewed Schismatrix for White Dwarf #77, and stated that "Besides being highly exciting and crammed with ingenious ideas, Schismatrix paints a moving Big Picture of humanity getting a grip on its own evolution. Schismatrix: the system that includes the entire Shaper/Mechanist universe. The term is first used when the advent of détente opens the possibility of the Shaper and Mechanist factions coexisting harmoniously; a splintered posthuman settlement of the Solar System. Wellspring, a visionary rogue Mechanist and leading proponent of the post-humanist philosophy, is Landau's mentor. Schismatrix later expands on the background of both Wellspring and C-K, which he helped found. "Sunken Gardens" (1984; set in 2554) – Individuals from various factions compete in a test of terraforming skills in a crater on the Martian surface.

This is a reissue of Schismatrix Plus by Bruce Sterling. The original, from 1986, was a reissue of the novel Schismatrix, but included the short stories by Sterling that are set in the same world.… He travels between the two camps, sewing discontent and embracing revolution, and he travels through the galaxy, trying to unite the various human off-shoots and bring about something even greater – a Schismatrix – “of a posthuman solar system, diverse yet unified, where tolerance would rule and every faction would have a share.” · Author Bruce Sterling has long been a favorite of mine, though oddly enough, I’ve never considered myself a fan of Cyberpunk (“oddly” because Sterling, along with William Gibson, is considered one of the founders of the Cyberpunk style [a combination of lowlife and high tech – per Wikipedia]). Looking for a good book? Bruce Sterling’s Schismatrix Plus is now a classic in the scifi literary world, as evidenced in part by this new reprinting, but one really needs to be prepared for a long, slow haul when reading this.