Then, look back in time to learn which subjects in each group had the exposure(s), comparing the frequency of the exposure in the case group to the control group. By definition, a case-control study is always retrospective because it starts with an outcome then traces back to investigate exposures. When the subjects are enrolled in their respective groups, the outcome of each subject is already known by the investigator. All studies which contain ‘cases’ and ‘controls’ are not case-control studies. One may start with a group of people with a known exposure and a comparison group (‘control group’) without the exposure and follow them through time to see what outcomes result, but this does not constitute a case-control study. Controls should be chosen who are similar in many ways to the cases. The factors (e.g., age, sex, time of hospitalisation) chosen to define how controls are to be similar to the cases are the ‘matching criteria’. The selected control group must be at similar risk of developing the outcome; it would not be appropriate to compare a group of controls who had traumatic corneal lacerations with cases who underwent elective intraocular surgery. Furthermore, patients who have the outcome (cases) are likely to scrutinize the past, remembering details of negative exposures more clearly than controls. This is known as recall bias. Anything the researcher can do to minimize this type of bias will strengthen the study. In the analysis stage, calculate the frequency of each of the measured variables in each of the two groups.

A case-control study is a type of observational study commonly used to look at factors associated with diseases or outcomes.[1] The case-control study starts with a group of cases, which are the individuals who have the outcome of interest. The researcher then tries to construct a second group of individuals called the controls, who are similar to the case individuals but do not have the outcome of interest. RR is also used to compare risk in other prospective study designs. The main issues of concern with a case-control study are recall bias, its retrospective nature, the need for a careful collection of measured variables, and the selection of an appropriate control group.[3] These are discussed above in the disadvantages section. A case-control study is a good tool for exploring risk factors for rare diseases or when other study types are not feasible. Many times an investigator will hypothesize a list of possible risk factors for a disease process and will then use a case-control study to see if there are any possible associations between the risk factors and the disease process. The most commonly cited disadvantage in case-control studies is the potential for recall bias.[2] Recall bias in a case-control study is the increased likelihood that those with the outcome will recall and report exposures compared to those without the outcome. In other words, even if both groups had exactly the same exposures, the participants in the cases group may report the exposure more often than the controls do. There are many advantages to case-control studies. First, the case-control approach allows for the study of rare diseases. If a disease occurs very infrequently, one would have to follow a large group of people for a long period of time to accrue enough incident cases to study.

A case-control study is an experimental design that compares a group of participants possessing a condition of interest to a very similar group lacking that condition. Here, the participants possessing the attribute of study, such as a disease, are called the “case,” and those without it are the “control.” The point of the control group is to facilitate investigation, e.g., studying whether the case group systematically exhibits that attribute more than the control group does. Example: Case-control studyYou are interested in the effects of exposure to a particular chemical on diagnoses of mesothelioma, a type of cancer. Here, you would compare those exposed (your case group) with those not exposed (your control group) to the chemical in question. While they may seem similar (and are indeed both types of retrospective observational studies), they follow distinct research paths. Retrospective cohort studies use existing secondary research data, such as medical records or databases, to identify a group of people with a common exposure or risk factor and to observe their outcomes over time. Case-control studies conduct primary research, comparing a group of participants possessing a condition of interest to a very similar group lacking that condition in real time. You would then collect data on your participants’ exposure to contaminated drinking water, focusing on variables such as the source of said water and the duration of exposure, for both groups. You could then compare the two to determine if there is a relationship between drinking water contamination and the risk of developing a gastrointestinal illness. Example: Healthcare case-control studyYou are interested in the relationship between the dietary intake of a particular vitamin (e.g., vitamin D) and the risk of developing osteoporosis later in life.