Since the American and French occupying powers severed the links between Mainz and the so-called Rechtsrheinische Stadtteile von Mainz (Mainz constituent communities on the Rhine's right bank) – the Rhine was the boundary between their two occupational zones – these six communities effectively ceased to be part of the city of Mainz. Whereas the three former constituent communities north of the Main were administered by Wiesbaden since then, Bischofsheim and neighbouring Ginsheim-Gustavsburg once again became independent municipalities in Groß-Gerau district. In 1930 it was incorporated to the city of Mainz, remaining a constituent community of that city until 1945. Due to its infrastructure Bischofsheim was subject to air raids bombing of Mainz in World War II. Mainz-Bischofsheim station is the centre of a railway hub with a marshalling yard, called Mainz-Bischofsheim, as Bischofsheim was formerly part of Mainz. The hub itself is formed by a junction of the Mainz–Frankfurt and Wiesbaden–Darmstadt lines. The community is directly reachable by Autobahnen A 60 and A 671. It is not known how they became a symbol of Bischofsheim, but they first appeared in seals in the 16th century and afterwards on other things of civic importance, such as municipal limit markers. One suggestion is that they derive from the two-wheels-and-cross charge in Mainz's coat of arms, seen here.[1] Bischofsheim is a municipality in Groß-Gerau district in Hesse, Germany with a population of more than 13,000. Bischofsheim lies south of the Main and east of the Rhine in the so-called Mainspitze triangle, a narrow piece of land between the Main and Rhine where the former empties into the latter.

This local council decides on important issues affecting the local area, however, the final decision on new policies is made by Mainz's municipal council. In accordance with section 29 paragraph 2 Local Government Act of Rhineland-Palatinate, which refers to municipalities of more than 150,000 inhabitants, the city council has 60 members. ... Until 1945, the districts of Bischofsheim (now an independent town), Ginsheim-Gustavsburg (which together are an independent town) belonged to Mainz. St. Martin's Cathedral in Mainz, by Wenzel Hollar; pen-and-ink drawing 1632 · The Jewish community of Mainz dates to the 10th century CE. It is noted for its religious education. Rabbi Gershom ben Judah (960–1040) taught there, among others. He concentrated on the study of the Talmud, creating a German Jewish tradition. Nowadays the Jewish community is growing rapidly, and a new synagogue by the architect Manuel Herz was constructed in 2010 on the site of the one destroyed by the Nazis on Kristallnacht in 1938. As of 2021, the Jewish community Mainz has 985 members. Mainz is located at the northern end of the Upper Rhine Plain, on the left bank of the Rhine, opposite the Hessian capital of Wiesbaden and the mouth of the River Main into the Rhine. It is the largest city of Rhenish Hesse, a region of Rhineland-Palatinate that was historically part of Hesse, and is one of Germany's most important wine regions because of its mild climate. Mainz was founded as Castrum Mogontiacum by Roman general Nero Claudius Drusus in the 1st century BC on the northern frontier of the Roman Empire, and became the capital of the Roman province of Germania Superior.

Between 1930 and 1945, Bischofsheim was a district of the city of Mainz and, as a result, the station was renamed Mainz-Bischofsheim. In 1945, the American and French occupying authorities transferred Bischofsheim to American administration and several months later it became part of the new state of Hesse. The Mainz rail bypass was built at the beginning of the 20th century to relieve Mainz Hauptbahnhof, running from Mainz via Wiesbaden to Bischofsheim. The construction of the Kostheim Bridge over the Main near Hochheim connected the Taunus Railway near Mainz-Kastel with the Hessian Ludwig Railway, connecting Mainz, Darmstadt and Aschaffenburg. Services on lines S 8 and S 9 each operate at 30-minute intervals on the Wiesbaden Hauptbahnhof–Hanau Hauptbahnhof route. Together the two lines operate at 15-minute intervals through Bischofsheim. Line S8 runs through Mainz Hauptbahnhof to Wiesbaden Hauptbahnhof, while line S9 runs via Kostheim Bridge to Mainz-Kastel and Wiesbaden Hauptbahnhof. Although Bischofsheim became a self-governing municipality again as a result, the station is still called Mainz-Bischofsheim.