He attempted to correlate oxygen loss and brain damage to cerebral palsy.[1] One of the most important contributions Little made to cerebral was a course of published lectures entitled “On the Nature and Treatment of the Deformities of the Human Frame,” which he delivered at England’s Royal Orthopaedic Hospital in 1843.[2] Around 1861, Little presented research to the Obstetrical Society of London, where he provided the first definition of cerebral palsy. Freud based his theory on the fact that some children who experienced oxygen loss during childbirth were not affected, while others were. On the other hand, Little had always maintained that birth asphyxia was the cause of cerebral palsy. Regardless, most physicians during that time still relied on Little’s findings, paying little attention to Freud’s theories. Additionally, Killilea was the co-founder of The National Cerebral Palsy Foundation. Breakthroughs in treatment options, different types of cerebral palsy, early diagnosis, and much more are available today. The book summarized all of Osler’s research and records on cerebral palsy. It also provided his insights on treatment information, including therapies that could help children manage the disorder better.

The origin and history of cerebral palsy includes great minds and dedicated researchers striving to improve the lives of those with impairment. Learn more. William John Little pioneered the study of Cerebral Palsy using his own childhood disability as an inspiration. His innovative techniques are still helping people today. Sir William Osler, considered an important figure in furthering modern medicine, wrote the first book on Cerebral Palsy. Innovators continued to bring Cerebral Palsy into the national consciousness, as well. Marie Killilea wrote a book, titled “Karen,” a novel about her daughter’s life with Cerebral Palsy. The book which is still in print today hit the New York Times bestseller list in 1952. Isabelle and Leonard Goldenson and Ethel and Jack Hausman were also parents of children with Cerebral Palsy.

Every effort to treat or eradicate a medical condition has its heroes, and Cerebral Palsy is no exception. Committed individuals inside and outside of the medical field have worked hard and enjoyed incredible victories in not only the fight to find new remedies for the condition, but also in the effort to create a better world for people with special needs. Dr. William John Little, the first man to define Cerebral Palsy as a brain injury caused by oxygen deprivation at birth, turned his illness-ridden childhood experiences into a lifelong desire to help others through his practice of medicine. Great minds, curiosity, a little science and some medicine - who discovered cerebral palsy? Learn about cerebral palsy pioneers... In 1853, he published his research in a document titled, “On the Nature and Treatment of the Deformities of the Human Frame,” noting congenital birth defects and “their capability of restoration to a surprising degree of perfection.” · His work on Cerebral Palsy culminated in 1861 when Little attempted the first definition of Cerebral Palsy in a paper presented to the Obstetrical Society of London. It was here he first defined what is now known as spastic Cerebral Palsy. His work was so groundbreaking that spastic Cerebral Palsy was first known as ‘Little’s disease.’ · Little’s 1861 paper also discussed the value of treatment and early intervention.