In 2010, the stadium installed two new HD Daktronics video displays to replace the entire previous setup at both ends. At the time of their construction, the larger screen, at 41.5 feet tall and 164 feet wide (12.6 m x 50.0 m), was the second-largest video monitor in any NFL stadium; only AT&T Stadium had a larger one. Gillette Stadium ranks first among all NFL venues in stadium food safety with 0% critical violations. As part of the UMass football program's move to Division I FBS, the Minutemen played all of their home games at Gillette Stadium for the 2012 and 2013 seasons. The stadium is 95 miles away from the UMass campus in Amherst—the longest trip of any FBS member. The Minutemen's on-campus stadium, Warren McGuirk Alumni Stadium, was not suitable for FBS football in its previous configuration. Although Gillette was acquired by Procter & Gamble in 2005, the stadium retains the Gillette name. In September 2010, Gillette and the Patriots announced that their partnership, which includes naming rights to the stadium, would extend through the 2031 season. Additionally, uBid (a wholly owned subsidiary of CMGI until 2003) continued to sponsor one of the main entrance gates to the stadium. Marking the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, a memorial garden was installed outside Gillette Stadium. It has a semicircle of six flowering trees, a commemorative plaque, a mural, and tribute stones with the names of the victims. Gillette Stadium will host seven matches during the 2026 FIFA World Cup: five group stage, one Round of 32, and one quarterfinal. It is one of eleven US venues selected to host matches during the tournament. During the event, the stadium will be temporarily renamed to "Boston Stadium" in accordance with FIFA's policy on corporate sponsored names.

The last game played in the stadium, the "Tuck Rule Game", was played in a snow storm; it resulted in a Patriots win against the Oakland Raiders, which famously featured an overturned fumble call based on the then-applicable tuck rule in the final minutes. The stadium's former site became parking lots for its successor, Gillette Stadium, before being developed into the open-air shopping center Patriot Place. With the completion of the AFL–NFL merger in 1970, the league required its teams to play in stadiums which seated more than 50,000, and no venue in Boston proper could accommodate a crowd this size with the NFL's then-new requirements. Indeed, before the Patriots arrived, numerous previous attempts at pro football in Boston had been stymied by the lack of a pro-caliber stadium. The site was selected when the owners of Bay State Raceway donated the land, midway between Boston and Providence, Rhode Island. The general contractor who built the stadium was a Massachusetts-based company named J. Like the majority of outdoor sports venues built in North America in the 1970s, Foxboro Stadium was designed for the use of an artificial turf playing surface. The original field was Poly-Turf, succeeded by AstroTurf. A natural grass field was installed before the start of the 1991 season. The original name in 1971 was Schaefer Stadium for the brewery of that name in an early example of the sale of naming rights to a company that did not own the stadium. Foxboro Stadium, originally Schaefer Stadium and later Sullivan Stadium, was an outdoor stadium in the New England region of the United States, located in Foxborough, Massachusetts. It opened in 1971 and served as the home of the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL) for ...

Welcome to Gillette Stadium, New England’s premier sports, entertainment and event venue. Learn more about everything Gillette Stadium has to offer. STADIUM FEATURES Design The beginning of the 2023 NFL season marked the completion of the most dramatic Gillette Stadium improvements since its opening in 2002. Welcome to Gillette Stadium, New England’s premier sports, entertainment and event venue. Learn more about everything Gillette Stadium has to offer. The beginning of the 2023 NFL season marked the completion of the most dramatic Gillette Stadium improvements since its opening in 2002. It includes the Gillette Stadium Lighthouse, a new signature 22-story lighthouse with a 360-degree observation deck open to guests year-round. The project also features the largest outdoor curved-radius videoboard at a sports venue in the country, the G-P Atrium, a new 50,000 square foot function space overlooking the game field, and the newly reimagined Plaza. The improvements also include the Ticketmaster entry canopy, a remodeled Row of Honor, the Bud Light Celebration Beer Hall, the Pepsi Grab & Go, connectivity on the Upper concourse for movement east to west, increased restroom capacity, and permanent bars and concession locations featuring new product offerings. In addition to these new amenities, Gillette Stadium features gathering areas including the DraftKings Sports Zone and the Commons on the Main Concourse, and the Encore Boston Harbor Terrace and the JetBlue Landings on the Upper Concourse, offering communal spaces where fans can gather to socialize before, during and after games.