The area is largely cleared and devoted to agriculture or urban use, although the drainages and lowlands are still wooded or brush-filled. According to the 2010 United States Census, the county has a total area of 419.32 square miles (1,086.0 km2), of which 409.57 square miles (1,060.8 km2) (or 97.67%) is land and 9.75 square miles (25.3 km2) (or 2.33%) is water. The lowest point in the state of Indiana is located on the Ohio River in Posey County, where the Wabash River flows into it, and Posey County's highest point (590 feet/180 meters ASL) is a small rise 1.6 miles (2.6 km) SSW from Saint Wendel, near the county's southeast corner. Posey County is the southernmost, southwesternmost, and westernmost county in the U.S. state of Indiana. Its southern border is formed by the Ohio River, and its western border by the Wabash River, a tributary to the Ohio. As of 2020, the population was 25,222. The Ports of Indiana-Mount Vernon, on the Ohio River, is the seventh-largest inland port complex in the nation. Mechanization of dock technology has altered the number of workers at the port, but Posey County is still the seventh-largest internal port in the United States, based on the tons of materials handled. After the American Revolutionary War, Posey County was originally considered part of the Northwest Territory, organized in 1787 by the new United States. As part of the Indiana Territory, it was organized in November 1814 from Gibson and Warrick counties. It was named for Revolutionary War Gen. Thomas Posey, who was then serving as Governor of the Territory. Mount Vernon was designated as the county seat in 1825. Its port on the Ohio River continues to be integral to the economy of the state and county.

Click here for current Posey County election information and election news. Click here for key Posey County Health & Community Services in Mt. Click here for Posey County Clerk’s Office information including fees and licenses. The Posey County commissioners welcome you to the official web site for Posey County.

Public User · An official website of the Indiana State Government · Accessibility Settings · Language Translation · Governor Eric J. Holcomb · Menu · Residents · Visitors · IN.gov · Business · Government · Search · Local Weather · Travel Advisories · IN.gov Feedback · IN.gov Home · My Local · Current: Posey County · State of Indiana