The Swedish Navy (Swedish: Svenska marinen) is the maritime service branch of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is composed of surface and submarine naval units – the Fleet (Flottan), formally sometimes referred to as the Royal Navy (Kungliga Flottan) – as well as marine units, the Amphibious Corps (Amfibiekåren). Founded under King Gustav I in 1522, the Swedish navy is one of the oldest continuously serving navies in the world, celebrating its 500th anniversary in 2022. Early Swedish kings (c. 9th–14th centuries) organised a Swedish Navy along the coastline through ledungen. This involved combined rowing and sailing ships (without artillery). This system became obsolete with the development of society and changes in military technology. No later than in the 14th century, the duty to serve in ledungen was replaced by a tax. In 1427, when Sweden was still part of the Kalmar Union (with Denmark and Norway), Swedish warships did however participate in the naval battle of Öresund against the Hanseatic League. On 7 June 1522, one year after the separation of Sweden from the Kalmar Union, Gustav Vasa purchased a number of ships from the Hanseatic town of Lübeck. Official Swedish histories since the 19th century have often recorded this day as the birth of the current Swedish Navy. For most of the twentieth century, the Swedish Navy focused on the threat of a full-scale invasion of Sweden via the Baltic Sea and on protecting commercial shipping. Sweden's location on the Scandinavian peninsula makes it highly dependent of maritime trade: 90% imports and exports enter or leave Sweden through the Baltic.

Though other more important elements have entered into her relations with Germany, the fear of Russia has also affected them. Many Swedish professional men and a certain number of army and naval officers have for years turned to Germany for their higher education, and business men have daily crossed the narrow waters of the Baltic for Germany, to whom and from whom Swedish exports and imports were by far the most important. During the years 1941-42 less than 5 per cent of the young men called for naval service were exempted on the ground of physical shortcomings. And the standard was a high one at that. Those in command are not only highly trained and efficient officers, but fulfill in every way what the Anglo-Saxon understands by a gentleman. While in former days they often sprang from the nobility and upper classes, this is now no longer the case. Whatever their social standing, the sea is in their blood. The personnel of the Swedish Navy consists partly of officers and men “de carrière,” and partly of civilians called for a fixed period of service. Without allowing themselves to be bound by theories prevailing in foreign navies, the Swedes have tried out their own naval tactics, taking chiefly into account the character of the waters outside their own shores and their resources in ships. They have observed with considerable interest that “group tactics,” tried out by their Navy in the early thirties on the basis of purely Swedish conditions, have been applied in the present war by the fleets of the belligerent powers. Even before the outbreak of the present war, the tactical problem of warding off simultaneous attacks by bombing and torpedo carrying aircraft had been thoroughly studied by the Swedish Navy in collaboration with the aircraft attached to it.

The total number of vessels exceeds 100 of which 25 are patrol and combination vessels dedicated to maritime surveillance, 5 are environmental protection vessels and 4 are hovercraft, two of which are of the same type as operated by the navy. While the vessels are themselves unarmed, the crews are equipped with light arms equivalent to the ones in use by the Swedish Armed Forces. This is a list of active ships of the Royal Swedish Navy. The Swedish Navy is the naval branch of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is composed of surface and submarine naval units – the Royal Fleet (Kungliga flottan) – as well as marine units, the Amphibious Corps. The Swedish Navy is the naval branch of the Swedish Armed Forces. In English, this is often changed to "HSwMS" ("His/Her Swedish Majesty's Ship") to differentiate Swedish vessels from those of the British Royal Navy.