The devices are physically unable to circumvent or corrupt configured memory management tables. In virtualization, guest operating systems can use hardware that is not specifically made for virtualization. Higher performance hardware such as graphics cards use DMA to access memory directly; in a virtual environment all memory addresses are re-mapped by the virtual machine software, which causes DMA devices to fail. An example IOMMU is the graphics address remapping table (GART) used by AGP and PCI Express graphics cards on Intel Architecture and AMD computers. In order to decrease the page table size the granularity of many IOMMUs is equal to the memory paging (often 4096 bytes), and hence each small buffer that needs protection against DMA attack has to be page aligned and zeroed before making visible to the device. An IOMMU solves this problem by re-mapping the addresses accessed by the hardware according to the same (or a compatible) translation table that is used to map guest-physical address to host-physical addresses. Some degradation of performance from translation and management overhead (e.g., page table walks).

A networked input/output memory management unit (IOMMU) includes a plurality of IOMMUs. The networked IOMMU receives a memory access request that includes a domain physical address generated by a first address translation layer. The networked IOMMU selectively translates the domain physical address into a physical address in a system memory using one of the plurality of IOMMUs that is selected based on a type of a device that generated the memory access request. A GPU virtual manager (VM), which is managed by a graphics device driver, translates the virtual addresses in memory access requests to physical addresses in the system memory such as physical addresses in the GPU carveout region of the system memory. In some cases, the GPU VM performs the address translation using a corresponding translation lookaside buffer (TLB) that caches frequently requested address translations from a page table. wherein performing the address translation of the domain physical address at the secondary IOMMU comprises performing a page table walk using a second TLB and a second set of page tables associated with the secondary IOMMU. ... selectively providing the memory access requests from the command queue to the primary IOMMU or the secondary IOMMU based on the type of the device that generated the memory access request. 18. A networked input/output memory management unit (IOMMU) configured to be connected to a graphics processing unit (GPU), at least one peripheral device, and a memory, the networked IOMMU comprising: The networked IOMMU selectively translates the domain physical address into a physical address in a system memory using one of the plurality of IOMMUs that is selected based on a type of a device that generated the memory access request. In some cases, the networked IOMMU is connected to a graphics processing unit (GPU), at least one peripheral device, and the memory.

A simple external clock usually drives the unit, and this provides a time-reference signal from which the CTU generates the timing and control signals for the various logic subsystems in the computer. Modern high-performance processors may include a separate clock management subsystem which generates multi-phase timing sequences for use by the CTU. The memory address register is used to handle the address transferred to the memory unit, and this can be handled either using a bus approach (which we have used in this architecture) or direct input declaration for the memory. The opcode identifies any further memory reference operations which are required to complete the instruction ‘fetch’. The control unit uses the updated program counter to make reference to successive addresses in the code part of memory to fetch any further parts of the instruction, such as immediate data values or the addresses of the operands and the address of the resultand. At the end of the instruction ‘fetch’, the CPU will contain all the information it requires to control the execution of the instruction and the program-counter will be pointing to the next instruction to be fetched (assuming that the execution cycle does not compute a new program-counter address). The various logic units used during the instruction ‘fetch’ cycle are shown in Figure 15.9 in which the memory and input/output discriminator