Valrico is a census-designated place (CDP) in Hillsborough County, Florida, United States. As of 2020 the population was 37,895. Before the Civil War, the area was known as Long Pond and consisted of several cotton plantations. It was renamed Valrico, meaning "rich valley" in Spanish, in the 1880s when William G. W.F. Miller, serving as president of the Valrico Improvement Association, raised $3,500 to erect the Valrico Civic Center, now known as the James McCabe Theater. The area's first general store was opened by Lovett Brandon in 1912. Valrico once again suffered a major blow during the stock market crash of 1929, which saw nearly every business in the town shut down. Not until the mid-1950s did the town begin to see growth again, primarily due to the connection of SR 60 to Tampa's Adamo Drive, placing Valrico right along a major Florida thoroughfare. In 1890, an influx of immigrants arrived, following the construction of the Florida Central and Peninsular Railroad through the area. When the railroad was completed, Tousey began building up the community with retail stores, streets, and a bank. In 1893, Mr. Bryan built a steam mill at Valrico station. According to the United States Census Bureau, the Valrico CDP has a total area of 14.2 square miles (36.8 km2), of which 13.8 square miles (35.8 km2) are land and 0.42 square miles (1.1 km2), or 2.92%, are water.

Originally founded in the mid-1800s, the area now known as Valrico, FL was once called Long Pond. Starting off with a rural history and widespread cotton plantations, the area was then renamed for the Spanish meaning of “rich valley” following the Civil War. Wondering about the cost of living in Valrico? While certain parts of the city can be a bit more expensive than Florida averages, the majority of your expenses will be around the same as other parts of the state. For those searching for four-year programs, check out either the University of South Florida or the University of Tampa, both of which are about 17 miles away. The workforce of people living in Valrico currently holds a median household income of $72,772, which is a bit higher than the average across the U.S. A few of the most popular Valrico jobs can be found with employers like Publix Super Markets, BayCare hospitals, Driscoll’s, Cyprexx, and USHEALTH Advisors. Florida is one of the most desirable states where both vacationers and local residents enjoy phenomenal weather pretty much all year long.

The Battle of Fort Myers is known as the "southernmost land battle of the Civil War." Confederate Maj. William Footman led 275 men of the "Cow Cavalry" to the fort under a flag of truce to demand surrender. The fort's commander, Capt. James Doyle, refused, and the battle began. ... In March 1865 Battle of Natural Bridge, a small band of Confederate troops and volunteers, mostly composed of teenagers from the nearby Florida Military and Collegiate Institute that would later become Florida State University, and the elderly, protected by breastworks, prevented a detachment of United States Colored Troops from crossing the Natural Bridge on the St. Florida participated in the American Civil War as a member of the Confederate States of America. It had been admitted to the United States as a slave state in 1845. In January 1861, Florida became the third Southern state to secede from the Union after the November 1860 presidential election victory of Abraham Lincoln. It was one of the initial seven slave states which formed the Confederacy on February 8, 1861, in advance of the American Civil War. Florida had by far the smallest population of the Confederate states with about 140,000 residents, nearly half of them enslaved people. Before falling into Union hands, many ethnic Minorcans from St. Augustine, as well as other civilians, signed on as volunteers with a militia unit called the St. Augustine Blues. This company would eventually become a part of the 3rd Florida Infantry Regiment. On May 20, General McCook read Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation during a ceremony in Tallahassee, officially ending slavery in Florida. That same day, his jubilant troopers raised the U.S. flag over the state capitol building. Tallahassee was the penultimate Confederate state capital to rejoin the Union. Austin, Texas, rejoined the next month. Yulee was imprisoned for helping Jefferson Davis escape, and Lesley hid Judah Benjamin in a swamp before he fled to the Gamble Mansion. Following the end of the Civil War, Florida was part of the Third Military District.