The replay, again held at Ibrox, attracted a crowd of 45,000 spectators and ended in a 2–0 defeat for Hamilton Academical. Their next chance at major silverware was the 1935 Scottish Cup final. Despite a Bertie Harrison goal (the club's only in a final of a major competition), Rangers went on to win the match in front of over 87,000 spectators by two Jimmy Smith goals. In the 1970s, Hamilton briefly resigned from the league due to mounting debts. In 1994 the club sold its home ground, Douglas Park, to Sainsbury's supermarket, and subsequently ground-shared in Coatbridge and Glasgow for seven years. They were established in 1874 from the school football team at Hamilton Academy and remain the only professional club in British football to have originated from a school team. Hamilton have won the Scottish Challenge Cup three times and have finished runners-up in the Scottish Cup twice. The club play their home games at New Douglas Park. The club play their fixtures at New Douglas Park, which was opened in 2001. The pitch is an artificial surface. The stadium has an overall capacity of 6,018 and is composed of two permanent and one temporary stand. The ground replaced Douglas Park, which was the home of Hamilton from 1888 to 1994. The ground was opened on 30 May 1888 with a match against Glasgow University. Despite their relegation, Hamilton's time in the top flight was most notable for their emphasis on youth, including midfielders James McCarthy and James McArthur, both of whom went on to play for English club Wigan Athletic in the Premier League before gaining international recognition. After a hard-fought campaign during the 2013–14 Scottish Championship season, Accies finished in second position on the final day of the season following a 10–2 home victory over Morton. The incident involved most of the club's working funds, causing the abandonment of a project to improve the youth academy. In February 2018, having only been able to recover a small percentage of their funds, Hamilton publicly declared that they were preparing to take legal action against the bank for a portion of the loss, believing the bank's security measures to have been inadequate in detecting the fraud (due to the unusual pattern of the transactions and the large sums involved); RBS rebutted this but stated they were working with the club and the police to identify those responsible.

The team at Hamilton Accies is committed to engaging with their fans and the new website is just one way they are doing so. ... Stay on top of the latest football news by following us! Get all the updates, scores, and insights you need to be the ultimate fan. ... Stay connected with the future of football by following our youth academy updates! Alternatively, if you have any questions, you can complete the contact form and a member of our team will get back to you as soon as possible. We hope to see you at one of our events soon! ... Do you have any questions? Contact us to get answers and assistance. We are here to help! JOCK BROWN APPOINTED AS CHAIRMAN OF HAMILTON ACADEMICAL FOOTBALL CLUB Dear Members, Supporters, and Friends of Hamilton Academical FC, We are thrilled to announce the appointment of Jock Brown as the new Chairman of Hamilton Read More » On behalf of myself and Hamilton Academical Football Club, we extend our deepest gratitude to John Brown as he steps down from his role as Read More »

We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Hamilton Academical matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues. Hover over the form graph to see event details. ... Hamilton Academical live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore. Hamilton Academical will play the next match against Falkirk FC on Oct 18, 2024, 6:45:00 PM UTC in Scottish Championship. There are also all Hamilton Academical scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future. Hamilton Academical performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge. The current Hamilton Academical roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page. There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.