In the pantheon of X-Men writers, few stand out like Chris Claremont. He had a career-defining run on the mutant heroes, including the classic "Days of Future Past" storyline -- and he intends to revisit it. The Marvel Made Paragon Collection will feature a new story that serves as a prequel to the events of "Days of Future Past," reuniting Claremont with X-Treme X-Men artist Salvador Larroca. Claremont recently discussed the challenges of crafting a prequel to such an iconic storyline and dealing with continuity. RELATED: Marvel Made Paragon Collection Honors X-Men Legend Chris Claremont Claremont first established the world of "Days of Future Past" with artist John Byrne in Uncanny X-Men #141-142. The story takes place in a future where the mutant-hunting Sentinels rule the planet, with mutants on the verge of extinction. An adult version of Kitty Pryde traveled back in time to warn the X-Men about an attempted assassination attempt by Mystique and the Brotherhood of Mutants. The storyline is regarded as one of the most influential in X-Men history, even serving as the basis of 2014's X-Men: Days of Future Past. The Marvel Made Paragon Collection: Chris Claremont Premier Bundle will collect several of Claremont's X-Men stories, including the "Days of Future Past" prequel.

One of the reason why I have never stayed 100% faithful to reading comics anymore is because I felt the genre no longer has talented original writers like Claremont or interesting stories like DOFP. ... Not to derail the topic at hand, but Crankypants John Byrne would probably insist that DoFP was his story. To this day, he still whines about Claremont's caption about Kate 'kissing her younger self' and how Chris made it ambiguous how much of a win it was. What I liked in Claremont’s stories was how much he was a writer of the intimate: it was about the characters felt, their realizations about themselves, their victories on their weaknesses, how their relationships revealed them. His characters grew, evolved, become more sensitive to their role in their chosen family… Claremont was intimate with them and, through him, we were intimate to them. Every once in a while Claremont would do something to tie in to it somehow and it just became big automatically. It pretty much is why Marvel has ended up having to establish it's time travel rules and an actual multiple universes/timelines and such, because every writer wanted to copy it and readers were fascinated by the idea. Does anybody know the relationship between Days of Future Past and Terminator? A lot of Claremont's concepts seem to be plagiarism. or very closely "inspired" by other genre media. When it comes to Claremont I always wonder what was first? Alien or Brood? Days of Future Past or Terminator?

Relive the legendary first journey into the dystopian f… Chris Claremont is a writer of American comic books, best known for his 16-year (1975-1991) stint on Uncanny X-Men, during which the series became one of the comic book industry's most successful properties. Creative Team: Chris Claremont (Writer) & John Byrne (Illustrator), both co-plotters Also: John Romita, Jr. Well, I was bored to tears and this is mostly due to the horrifically bad dialogue. Tip to Chris Claremont - when you’re using a visual medium like comic books, there’s no need for your characters to tell the reader every single thing they’re doing using the very limited space you have for dialogue.